Proposal for AdonisJS Governance (#4)
adonisjs/.github: GOVERNANCE.md

# Governance

## Roles and responsibilities

### Authors

> Harminder Virk (the creator of AdonisJS) serves as the Project Author. The project author is responsible for the project's governance, standards, and direction. To summarize.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Harminder Virk (the creator of AdonisJS) serves as the Project Author. The project author is responsible for the project's governance, standards, and direction. To summarize:
```

- The project author decides which new projects should live under the AdonisJS umbrella.
- The project author is responsible for assigning leads to projects and transferring projects to a new lead when an existing lead steps down.
- It is the author's responsibility to share/document the framework's vision and keep project leads in sync with the same.

### Project Leads

AdonisJS is a combination of several packages created and managed by the core team. All of these packages are led by a project lead selected by the project Author. 

> In almost every case, the creator of the project serves as the project lead since they are the ones who have put the initial efforts into bringing the idea to life.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In almost every case, the creator of the package serves as the project lead since they are the ones who have put the initial efforts into bringing the idea to life.
```

To avoid confusing with the creator of the AdonisJS project.

Core team members have no authority over the overall direction of the project. However, they do have the ear of the project lead. It is a core team member's job to ensure that the lead is aware of the community's needs and collective objectives, and to help develop or elicit appropriate contributions to the project. Often, core team members are given informal control over their specific areas of responsibility, and are assigned rights to directly modify certain areas of the source code. That is, although core team members do not have explicit decision-making authority, they will often find that their actions are synonymous with the decisions made by the lead.

#### Active Core Team Members

> Active Core Team Members contribute to the project on a regular basis. An active core team member usually have one or more focus area - in the most common cases, they will be responsible for the regular issue triaging, bug fixing, documentation improvements or feature development in a sub project repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Active Core Team Members contribute to the project on a regular basis. An active core team member usually has or more focus areas - in the most common cases, they will be responsible for the regular issue triaging, bug fixing, documentation improvements or feature development in a subproject repository.
```

- Supporting new users (current users often provide the most effective new user support)
- Reporting bugs
- Identifying requirements
- Programming
- Assisting with project infrastructure
- Fixing bugs
- Adding features

As contributors gain experience and familiarity with the project, they may find that the project lead starts relying on them more and more. When this begins to happen, they gradually adopt the role of core team member, as described above.

### Users

Users are community members who have a need for the project. They are the most important members of the community: without them, the project would have no purpose. Anyone can be a user; there are no specific requirements.

Users should be encouraged to participate in the life of the project and the community as much as possible. User contributions enable the project team to ensure that they are satisfying the needs of those users. Common user activities include (but are not limited to):

- Evangelizing about the project.
- Informing developers of project strengths and weaknesses from a new user's perspective.
- Providing moral support (a 'thank you' goes a long way).

> - Providing financial support through Github Sponsors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Providing financial support through GitHub Sponsors.
```

### Monetary Donations

For an open development project, money is less important than active contribution. However, some people or organizations are cash-rich and time-poor and would prefer to make their contribution in the form of cash. If you want to make a significant donation, you may be able to sponsor us to implement a new feature or fix some bugs. The project website provides clear guidance on how to go about donating.

If you run a business using the project as a revenue-generating product, it makes business sense to sponsor its development. It ensures the project that your product relies on stays healthy and actively maintained. It can also improve exposure in our community and make it easier to attract new developers.

## Branding and Ownership

AdonisJS (spelled with "JS" at the end) is a registered trademark of Harminder Virk.

> Only the projects under the `@adonisjs` npm scope and the AdonisJS Github organization are managed and officially supported by the core team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only the projects under the `@adonisjs` npm scope and the AdonisJS GitHub organization are managed and officially supported by the core team.
```

Also, you must not use the AdonisJS name or logos in a way that could mistakenly imply any official connection with or endorsement of AdonisJS. Any use of the AdonisJS name or logos in a manner that could cause customer confusion is not permitted.

This includes naming a product or service in a way that emphasizes the AdonisJS brand, like "AdonisJS UIKit" or "AdonisJS Studio", as well as in domain names like "adonisjs-studio.com".

Instead, you must use your own brand name in a way that clearly distinguishes it from AdonisJS.

Additionally, you may not use our trademarks for t-shirts, stickers, or other merchandise without explicit written consent.

## Projects under AdonisJS umbrella

> Projects under the AdonisJS umbrella are the intellectual property of the Project Author. Once a project created by a project lead becomes part of the "AdonisJS Github organization," or if it is published under the `@adonisjs` npm scope, the project leads cannot delete or abandon the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Projects under the AdonisJS umbrella are the intellectual property of the Project Author. Once a project created by a project lead becomes part of the "AdonisJS GitHub organization," or if it is published under the `@adonisjs` npm scope, the project leads cannot delete or abandon the project.
```
